we're going to see
uh a lot of starvation and of course
this leads to pandemic we'll have real
pandemics because again when you have
many people starving they're uh first of
all they start migrating and eating
things they don't normally eat and their
immune systems are depressed anyway
bottom line is every time you get big
famines you get big pandemics well good
then we can lock everybody then we can
lock everybody down again eh that'd be
real fun we can lock everybody down
again like they did in shanghai and then
we can disrupt the supply chains any
even more and then we can starve a bunch
more people and maybe we will settle out
with 600 million people and have a
sustainable planet you know with all
those 600 million people living in the
ashes and the skeletons
[Music]
hi everybody it's my pleasure and
privilege today to be speaking with
correspondent michael yawn i reached out
to michael because i've been extremely
interested in the european civil
protests specifically those centering in
at the moment in the netherlands
inspired in no small part by the
canadian truckers convoy
those those protests are receiving short
shrift and minimal coverage in what has
been come to known as the legacy media
which is more and more uh
in a collusional relationship let's say
with the with the globalist utopians who
are attempting to guide our destiny so
destructively and unsuccessfully
i reached out to michael because i want
to find out to the degree that i can
what's going on particularly in the
netherlands and more broadly in europe
and around the world and
he's a cardinal person to
talk to in this regard and he's a very
interesting person in his own right uh
for all sorts of reasons which we'll get
into as we progress michael was one of
america's youngest green berets that's
not an easy thing to manage at 19 years
old he spent more than half his life
overseas in more than 80 countries so
he's been everywhere man and has seen
many things
mr yon is also the author of three books
published in the united states including
moment of truth in iraq 2016 and three
others in japan
covering among other topics the present
and developing
information war
with china
he is america's most experienced combat
correspondent uh not necessarily a title
for the faint of heart let's say
most recently as i said and this is the
proximal reason for this discussion
michael has been tracking and covering
the rising tide of civil disobedience in
the netherlands and elsewhere in europe
so thank you michael very much for
coming in to talk to me today i
understand that you're in the
netherlands right now you've been there
for a couple of weeks and so tell us a
little bit about yourself and and what
why you're in the netherlands and what
you've been seeing and what you think it
means
yes sir jordan and thank you for
inviting me on i've watched your show
for years now it's it's incredible to
come on yeah and you you mentioned the
canadian uh truckers that their courage
cannot be and their inspiration cannot
be understated uh you know courage is
courageous as is cowardice and so we
must display courage uh
recently some months ago earlier this
year i drove from california to
washington dc with american truckers who
were inspired by canadian truckers and
they were flying canadian flags these
are american truckers and americans over
bridges i must have seen hundreds of
thousands uh flying
almost as many canadian flags as
americans you may have seen it on the
news while the news sort of blockaded it
no no we never see anything like that on
the news in canada because uh yeah our
media is so subsidized by the government
that
we anything that runs against government
dictates and i hate to say that about a
country like canada is just minimally or
minimally covered or not covered at all
i had no idea that they can that the
american truckers were flying canadian
flags you'd think that'd be news in
canada because isn't it news when canada
becomes interesting and in fact i know
almost nothing about the truckers convoy
in the u.s to washington um and i do try
to follow the news
jordan that the the the trekkers uh a
convoy in the united states from
california to washington it was actually
pretty massive and i was there every
step of the way and so many canadian
flags you wouldn't believe it hanging
off bridges sides of the roads even in
blue states uh and uh and it was all
from inspiration from canada and so uh
yeah again courage is courageous
cowardice is courageous and uh the
americans were were very uh proud uh to
follow the lead of of canadians and so
again this is spreading across the world
yeah well that's amazing don't even know
it do they they don't even know it
because they don't know that truckers to
know it
no no they have no idea and and that's
really sad you know that we're in a
situation where
we could have that be something that
that we don't know and so
well that's part of what puts us in the
situation that we're in okay so you're
with the american truckers when they
went to washington what sort of effect
do you think they had
it was galvanizing of course you know
it's just one one battle of many of
awareness at that point uh you know that
and i i spent so much time with the
truckers because you in every country
that i go to i want to know
what the farmers think i go straight to
farmers i want to know what people like
truckers think law enforcement military
that sort of thing uh you know the basic
pulse of the of the countries that i go
to and so yeah it had a good effect it
certainly as you know this is a long
road you've been talking about this for
years uh and it's you've been fighting
this battle for years and you know it's
a knock down drag out fight and it goes
on but you've mentioned i've watched
some of your recent programs you you
acknowledged that we're actually making
progress against the west and the other
they call them wef here the world
economic forum the wf uh in netherlands
they call it west we are making progress
uh you know no no plan ever survives
first contact with the enemy and now we
are the enemy for weap obviously and uh
and and now that millions of people are
waking up it seems like by the week at
this point uh you know left is suddenly
in for an actual real fight and so
that's why ik i was just in mexico uh
tracking migrants as i've been doing
this is all part of a larger
uh uh a jungle let's say it's not just
about farmers it's not just about
truckers it's not just about the
information information war obviously is
phd level warfare all of the substrate
for everything going on is information
more as you know so who do you okay so
you said we are the enemy let's say and
so who do you mean by we and
what do you what do you think the
fight's about how would you characterize
it and who do you think so to speak is
on the other side you mentioned the wef
and of course they're they're enemies of
the moment or what would you call it
villains of the moment and i think
deservedly so in many ways so but how do
you characterize this
battle why do you think it of it as a
battle and uh what does it look like
from your perspective when you're
talking to the truckers and the farmers
and the and the law enforcement types
well actually it's it's
intergenerational as you know we could
go back to the 1920s and talk about
russian information war and even earlier
1879 grant was talking about it when he
was in paris and so uh but so so this
isn't something that started last week
or even last generation uh but some of
our our biggest opponents at this point
are certainly west and and ccp of course
i've written three books on ccp
information war unfortunately they're
still in chinese language that's the
chinese communist party for those of you
who aren't up on the acronyms and uh you
it we'd be hard-pressed to find a more
devious enemy than the chinese communist
party uh if you're a supporter of the
ccp and it's machinations then
you're either woefully ignorant to a
degree that's almost incomprehensible or
malevolent to the core or some appalling
combination of both so and it's so
strange to hear you talk about the ccp
and the wef in the same breath because
you wouldn't think at all that those
would be natural allies given that the
wef hypothetically is well on the side
of the planet and the west and
civilization and the ccp are nothing but
tyrannical warmongering north korean
wannabes
so
they're not jordan i mean that's an
important point they're not necessarily
on the same side uh but they're part of
the same jungle i mean these are two
serious uh opponents uh you know there's
nobody that actually runs the jungle per
se right uh yeah
and and one of the massive opponents
obviously is is chinese communist party
and they are excellent they are masters
at information war again i've written
three books on this that are only in
japanese language i wrote them in
english but i was asked to publish books
by a japanese publisher in japan about
this and so in which i did and in an
attempt to wake up japanese to the
intense
information war that they are undergoing
you know i got kicked out of hong kong
in 2020
uh by the
obviously the chinese communist party
because i was covering the fighting
there for seven months and getting my
share of rubber bullets and tear gas
constantly those things do sting but
they're not quite like bullets uh the uh
the bottom line is is the chinese
communist party their information ground
game is so intense for instance i went
to nanjing to look at the the
the the rape of nanjing museum this
museum is i i've studied museum warfare
in numerous countries for instance
indonesia malaysia long list and i'll
often go to museums to look for uh hints
of uh of behind-the-scenes influence and
you see in the in the
the rape of nanjing museum in nanjing
china that thing must have cost 50
million dollars i don't know how much it
cost but but to be directionally
accurate let's just assign a number 50
million dollars and uh you know
when when you show up there in the
morning there's dozens of buses filled
with school children and they they go in
their different color shirts for the
different buses and the different flags
you know so that and i was the only uh a
foreigner there to my knowledge and you
know when you're about halfway through
the museum you're like wow that was the
biggest museum that's like the louvre
almost you know well it's not quite that
big but but it has quite a large museum
and uh but then you're only you realize
you're only halfway through it now as a
as a mental health expert you know that
there's two components to hatred and
those are anger and disgust that's like
h2o if you can if you can combine anger
and disgust you will get hatred every
single time as you go through that i'm a
writer so i study these things as well
as you go through the nanjing museum
it's all about hatred and disgust
focused towards japanese right and it's
clear you know if you want to know what
a country's future plans are you watch
their information ground game and the
information ground game against japan is
a pure hatred uh you know for instance
they
ring the sirens several times a year in
nanjing you know as if there's an air
raid going on uh when you're you know
i've spent quite a bit of time in china
all over the place uh you know at night
time if you're in the hotel room you'll
always see the movies here comes the
drunken japanese soldier again with his
uniform and he
kills the you know the the chinese
parents and rapes the girl and he
staggers out drunk you know there's that
movie and then not next comes the second
movie that night same thing it's the
same story every single night seven days
i don't i don't suppose they show
drunken cultural revolution students
from the 1960s
like killing people and and and
destroying the into all the last
vestiges of chinese traditional culture
no sir uh
and you can see for instance in okinawa
now one of one of the things that i mean
you've talked about these things before
uh you know i have an office entirely
and they're trying to split thailand
into three different parts one of the i
was i was out with the malice in nepal
for about a year one of the things that
they did to help you know the malice to
eventually win if you want to call it
winning is to get everybody to speak
their own languages right everybody to
go with their own
divide and conquer when i was recently
in morocco same thing you see a new
berber language written on the road
signs which is like a new made up
language i mean berber's not
not a made-up language but the written
component is and i see these things all
over the place we're you know dividing
it's been happening down in columbia i
was down in colombia last year with a
senator maria cabal and maria said why
are they trying to get all the
indigenous people to speak their own
languages and to fight each other and to
fight us and of course you know colombia
just fell as well right so this is the
same thing that they're doing in panama
i've spent a lot of time in panama
recently uh and and and i'm watching
that closely you see panama is melting
down right now and uh and you know
obviously there's a panama canal there
that's of some significance to put it
mildly also panama is a major invasion
route to the united states i've spent
many months that i took two congressmen
there last year into the dairy and gap
one of the most dangerous jungles in the
world actually i can't believe they went
out there but they they went deep into
the dairy and gap and i showed him
exactly this invasion that's coming
through
asia and africa and south america up
through colombia up through panama and
going straight to the united states
right uh people from about 140 countries
completely unvetted uh and it is growing
it's becoming massive i was there when
mayorcus landed right in front of me as
blackhawk helicopters some months ago
expanding our program there for this
invasion route so all of these things
fit together jordan as you know the
impact how do you how do you stop from
becoming paranoid and i mean you're
behind the scenes looking at all these
strange things this web of intrigue on
multiple fronts um how do you protect
yourself against paranoia and
conspiratorial thinking and this is a
very dead serious question because it's
you know it's very hard not to take on
the trappings of your surroundings and
when you're constantly looking at
intrigue and malevolence behind the
scenes i can't see how that could help
but color your entire world view and so
given that why do you think people
should trust your perspective and
believe and believe that what you're
seeing is veritable and and not
like tilted by your own what would you
call it
preoccupations and situational
peculiarities
uh well
that's an excellent question and i've
asked myself that many times because
self-auditing is essential in this line
of work and i do think i've had a sort
of self vaccination when i was younger
on this particular
topic because i
since i was a child i was always into
science
especially physics
and uh
i was just um basically i was failing
school because all i wanted to do was
study physics and so and uh
you you can never waste a moment of your
time studying mathematics and that sort
of thing right and so uh uh you know
when you when you start off when you're
9 or 10 years old basically enthralled
by the sciences and you live in a fact
you
built a fact-based world around your
your life you you you build
self-auditing into your thinking
processes right you're always
questioning whether am i is this just a
perception am i right or wrong on this
sort of thing uh you know so yeah i mean
obviously i'm always uh
so part of it's so part of its
scientific rationality do you have
people around you friends and family
that also help keep you in check
well i've never really been highly
conspiratorial to begin with i mean for
instance when i on the museum warfare
uh
you know i i mean
that was brought up to me by someone
actually
a military officer that a former now
that i work with closely uh and uh and
he he flew over to thailand to brief me
on it maybe eight years ago or something
and uh we it briefed me on it quite a
while and then we started flying around
to different countries like indonesia
and malaysia and looking at these
museums and i said wow this is clearly
cookie cutter museums it's clearly
designed to cause hatred against
japanese and you know when we look at oh
good lord i could go on for literally
i've written three books about it so
i'll have to self edit there but so i
make it go on forever but there is
clearly a larger organization around
these
music this museum warfare and it's
definitely centered in china for
instance when i was at penang there was
a uh there was a
the curator of the museum i said wow
what a nice museum you've got here of
course it was all about hating japanese
and uh and uh and and he said oh i just
got back from uh i just got back from
beijing he said i was invited there
because they they enjoyed my museum so
much and i said oh really do you have
any photos and he pulls out this book
from under the desk actually it's a
large book i photographed the whole book
and it's got photos of all the curators
from all these different museums such as
holocaust museum in houston texas right
and it's got all the names in there i
photographed everything checked out
every name in the book right it's clear
and it took a lot of research but we can
clearly see this is part of
a very
sophisticated organism
information operation that is that's
just part of it okay well let's let's
turn
let's turn to the wef and let's turn to
the global utopias and to
what happened in canada the canadian
truckers here they were pushing back
against what they regarded as
unwarranted government overreach and
intrusion into their private lives on
the coving front fundamentally and i was
a supporter of the truckers right from
day one i believe like you do that
truckers and farmers and the men
particularly the men and the women who
work on those front line occupations
have a
pragmatic wisdom that the intellectual
types often don't and i've also noted
too that the intellectual socialist
types really like the working class in
principle but they actually don't like
the working class as such because they
tend not to hold the same utopian
intellectual views that the globalists
do and so we saw that in spades in
canada and i've seen my government take
a turn for the worse on multiple
dimensions in canada that's jaw-dropping
in its continuity and depth and it's
clearly the case that canadians haven't
woken up to that yet although perhaps
they're starting to and a huge part of
that is this appalling and
unconscionable media con collusion and
so
now we see something similar happening
in europe particularly in the
netherlands and we should let everyone
know and you have to listen to this this
is so important you know the netherlands
is the world's second biggest exporter
of agricultural products this little
tiny postage stamp of a country that was
scraped out of the ocean has managed to
put itself together so that it can not
only feed itself but so that it's a
major agricultural supplier worldwide
it's a phenomenal accomplishment we
should be so happy with the dutch
farmers that we can hardly stand
ourselves and instead the courts in
particular
have mandated that the farmers be
scuttled and the government their own
government has basically come out right
out and said well because you guys
pollute so much um we have to crack down
on you as well as reducing the speed
limits of our cars which is an ultra
appalling move and we we're we're sorry
but a lot of you are going to have to go
out of business but you know that's
to make an omelette a few eggs have to
be broken and as the president of
greenpeace in the netherlands said
recently well we know we're not going to
combat climate change the climate change
emergency without
inconveniencing a few people and now
there's what 40 000 truckers in the
netherlands who are up in arms and i
believe a hundred thousand people have
protested in spain and this is spreading
into germany and into the fishermen in
the netherlands as well who are also
being pressured by these utopian types
and so
how do you tie that into what happened
in canada and the u.s and
and what do you think's going on
well it's all part of it this larger
world economic forum attacks on us of
course and and by the way i lived in
europe for six years especially
i lived
four years in germany i lived two years
in poland uh and i've been all over
europe right uh but mostly not recently
uh mostly i've been in asia recently in
other places and so uh but yeah it's
clear that for instance uh when i was
recently in mexico uh following the the
migrants uh just streaming acros
in may alone we had about 310 000
illegally crossed into the united states
in one month and so
310 000.
roughly 310 000 known
across just in may right and so uh
and i'm not sure what that number is
this last month i've tried i don't know
the number yet but uh but the bottom
line is it's it's increasing at a at a
very high rate and this human osmotic
pressure i call it hop human osmotic
pressure the push and pull of migration
is greatly fueled by one information
campaigns which i've seen in colombia
for instance on cnn encouraging people
to go north uh and uh and also
obviously another thing that causes hop
is war
famine uh pandemic uh and also the
economic negative pressure which would
draw you into another place right so
there's a positive pressure that pushes
you out and the negative pressure that
pushes you in pulls you in and this is
really uh dramatically expanding you can
see this all
also in europe as you know big uh
they're being overwhelmed with
hungry mouths actually as we go into a
global famine which i've been warning
about okay so okay so let's talk about
okay let's talk about this global famine
man because i i see that coming in
in the fall in a big way and so my sense
is
well partly because of the ukraine
conflict and the fact that we're wiping
out a big chunk of the world's wheat
supply and fertilizer supply that we're
going to be putting about 150 million
people under intense food pressure
really starting this fall
i think that's when it's going to kick
in and my sense is well there's no way
that can happen without mass migration
pressure on europe maybe of a scale that
makes the last migration crisis look
like virtually nothing and so am i being
paranoid about that you seem to be
thinking along the same lines and you
said you've seen this coming for about
three years
i think you're understating it actually
so what's going to happen in the fall
i i started warning in january of 2020
actually and i've warned every day since
and it's and
at this point i worn about you know half
a dozen times a day uh so
pandora let's talk about pan for war
first pandemic famine war the triangle
of death they always go together if you
get a big war or a big
uh pandemic or a big famine
you'll get the other two you get one you
get the other two it's three musketeers
and all of these things any one of them
creates the human osmotic pressure right
so these things go together so when i
saw this i was one of the very first
alerting on the pandemic right i was in
january in mid to uh some somewhere
around january 19th i think i started
warning about uh uh of uh pandemic and
uh in in and so
immediately
having studied war for so many years not
just kinetic war and the shootouts and
all that i did that for years back when
i was quite skinny and running around
out in the wars and all that uh but
there's also information war which the
phd level of warfare and then there's
these other components that people must
study if they're going to be a serious
student of war which is migration
pandemic
and famine they always go together
period right okay so let me ask you let
me ask you a question about that so my
sense was that on the pandemic front
that because we disrupted the supply
chains and we we have by no means fixed
that in the lease there's a shortage you
can't get a car in canada you can't get
a motorbike you can't get a uh personal
watercraft you can't get paper and
cardboard for books there's a there's a
massive
backlog and lineup for everything i know
that one container ship in five is now
snared at a port
and so
i know what happens when you put
pressure on the supply chain the people
who suffer for that the most are the
people at the bottom of the economic
hierarchy and so those are going to be
people that are barely hanging on in
developing countries especially in north
africa that'll be my guess where this is
going to affect this is going to have
the biggest effects
and so you know if you show a one
percent increase in unemployment you get
a five percent increase in psychiatric
hospitalization and that's because
there's a lot of people who are just
barely making ends meet and then if you
double the cost of necessities like
energy or let's say fertilizer or we
could even put in food
then you're going to produce a
tremendous amount of economic pressure
on these people
tilt them into starvation and so we've
seen what's happened in sri lanka which
is just an absolute bloody major
significant ongoing catastrophe 21
million people in sri lanka there's no
way we're going to be able to feed them
in any real sense for any long period of
time so
all that eco movement forward on the sri
lankan front is going to ensure that
those poor starving people are going to
eat every goddamn animal on that in that
entire country to stave off starvation
and then they're going to burn
everything for fuel because what the
hell else are they going to do so this
idea that we can make people poor hungry
cold or hot by scaling back food
production and disrupting energy
supplies and that's somehow going to
save the planet is as backwards of
conception as any dimwit could possibly
formulate and so okay so what do you
think is going to happen in the fall
massive famines and you know i went to
sri lanka
four five six years ago to have a
look-see i'm often just going and
looking and checking the police and the
food supply and there was plenty of food
sri lanka had so much food yeah it was
just like in cheap and plentiful right
and then the next thing you know uh here
we go now that was doing well
yeah one thing about famine famine
creates famine in the same way that war
creates war and fire creates fire famine
creates famine so when we go into these
initial phases of famine you'll see
immediately obviously price controls
will start to be enforced this happens
every time
it's happening right now in panama in
the last 48 hours right price controls
on gasoline and some other things oh
yeah a lot of violence now in panama in
fact just minutes before you and i came
on i was talking with a friend in panama
about the current situation that's how
close i keep tabs on panama
for various reasons one is the panama
canal and so um and so and another
another thing is is for instance uh
when when people are hungry
as you know within 48 hours they're
going to hit the streets right and
they'll start robbing the stores they'll
start robbing the the trucks and the
trains and the boats and so then
supplies stop going governments always
start taking food from the farmers they
without exception in my uh uh study over
the years the governments always go for
the farmers and like in egypt recently
forcing the egyptian farmers to sell to
only approved uh you know uh warehouses
that sort of thing so people start
robbing from the farmers as well right
and then the farmers say hey i'm not
making i'm i'm either bankrupt or i'm
not making any money and so the farmers
stop farming so that's how you see we
get into the second season of this right
and so the famine creates more famine
just like fire creates fire and then
famine uh you know let's say you have uh
20 million people that are hungry in sri
lanka and as their nutritional uh you
know resources diminish so too does
their
physical resilience and now they're open
to disease many of the people that die
in famines actually die from things like
they call them famine fevers one of
those is typhus another is relapsing
fevers uh cholera which is not a famine
fever waterborne of course fecal
anyway the bottom line is
many of the people if not most who die
during famines are actually from disease
and then this causes that human osmotic
pressure and these sorts of things often
lead to more war right so it's a it's a
recursive sort of you know the the
factors just keep uh you know it's it's
almost uh a
fission reaction right and yeah sure
positive feedback loop yeah yeah yeah
yeah run away paredo distribution
problem runaway runaway catastrophe yeah
i get it positive feedback loops
emerging everywhere and why do you think
what are the factors that are driving
the re-emergence of the famine um you
said there's a lot of instability in
central america and so we're going to
keep an eye out there obviously sri
lanka has collapsed entirely and there's
absolutely no doubt whatsoever that a
major part of the reason that sri lanka
collapsed is because the globalist
utopians get gathered the reins of
government in sri lanka because it was
actually developing at quite a rate and
as you said it would have a lot of food
and not a bad general income level just
a few years ago so this wasn't a
catastrophic country to begin with it
was a country on the move upward and it
was completely scuttled by these
globalist plans and so what's
contributing to the developing famine
right now in and where do you think it's
going to be most intense
where will it be the most intense that's
the something i think about every single
day uh one of the things i've learned in
wars and then the study of war is uh
whatever you think will probably turn
out to be wrong yeah yeah yeah you know
this i watch so many of your programs uh
the the this you know the the the uh uh
this the systems that
that emerge will will present themselves
in due course right uh what we can see
is the the my you know when i talk with
laura logan the famous correspondent
she'll say
they've been talking about you know a
1.2 bill they meaning world economic
forum have been talking about uh 1.2
billion people uh
forced to migrate they've been talking
about that for years and it's true yeah
and they're going to blame it they're
bloody well going to blame it on climate
change you watch that's what they're
going to do
you bet yeah
so 1.2 billion 1.2 billion so my
estimated estimation of 150 million is
you think is optimistic
i think highly optimistic i i would not
be surprised
jordan i would not be surprised if
within by 2025 if a billion people
aren't dead i mean we're really heading
into the most epic
famines that have ever happened in human
history
man i i was i was looking at a i was
looking at a economist cover the other
day the economist magazine and it said
20 million people saved by covid vaccine
and i thought yeah you bastards for
every mil for every million persons that
you saved with the lockdowns and the
whole vaccination sk uh uh not the
vaccination
scam but the but the pandemic panic
you're probably going to kill 50 because
of supply dis supply chain disruptions
and
postpone starvation and so you know
that's part of the problem with turning
political decisions over to the medical
experts is that what we save we save
some people with the left hand and we
doom a hundred more with the right hand
and and and that and there there is a
lag which we basically tried to shut
down the world's economy for two years
as if we could do that because well look
everything's so plentiful isn't it
doesn't it matter at all that people
aren't going to go to work it turns out
that it actually matters a lot and so
what are the factors right now
that are contributing to this emergent
food insecurity quote problem
why are why are these people who were
being fed not being fed now
let's talk about energy energy is
another kill shot yeah right yeah
this highly ill-advised war in uh
ukraine uh you know i was in lithuania
last year warning about this over and
over and over i was down in morocco
uh with my friend war correspondent
chuck holton and we called up frontex
which is like the european border patrol
you might say their their headquarters
in warsaw and they said belarus
lukashinko the dictator there is pushing
migrants into lithuania and i had been
with the lithuanian army in afghanistan
i called him up i said what's going on
and they said hey come on up so i flew
from morocco to vilnius lithuania and i
had full access to their elected
officials intelligence uh the camps for
the migrants and
army the whole thing so for almost a
month right so i was very well aware
that russia is up to something uh and i
was publishing that right and so we've
gone into this war on ukraine right and
uh russia is just of course obviously a
nordstream is cut right will it be
turned back on and now as you probably
are aware we just had i wouldn't turn it
on if i was putin
i wouldn't either and you know even
trump warned them about this years ago
love him or hate him he was very clear
about it and we just had an explosion
roughly a month ago at a texas port an
lng facility which is critical right we
were supplying uh liquid
natural gas to europe this would have
helped you need this for the bosch the
hebrew bosch process to create the many
of the fertilizers right that natural
gas is very important then we had an
explosion and a a pipeline explosion
roughly two weeks ago in texas and then
we just had another uh uh natural gas uh
uh problem at a plant in oakland we've
had three oklahoma two in texas right
meanwhile they're being shut off in
from russia and we've got a potential
war
brewing here for instance between iran
and israel imagine where that could go
on energy supplies we're looking okay so
let's let's look at let's look at that
for a minute so i'm going to lay down a
proposition here for all of you who are
listening
if you are a friend
to the poor and the oppressed and the
hungry
the number one thing you want to do is
drive energy prices as low as they
possibly can be on every front that you
possibly can manage and that bloody well
includes coal and petroleum and natural
gas and then we could add nuclear to
that and if you want to throw renewables
in for the tiny percentage that they
account for you could do that too but
because energy is equivalent to work and
because work is equivalent to food and
shelter if you make energy expensive
what you do is you starve the poor and
you don't have to starve them very much
before they become desperate and things
fall apart and then we fall into these
positive feedback loops that michael has
been describing and so when you hear
these bloody globalist globalist
utopians talk about the necessity for
higher energy costs you remember that
that comes directly at the cost of the
world's poor christian freeland the
deputy prime minister of canada two
weeks ago had the unmitigated and i
would say quasi-demonic gall to announce
publicly that eight dollar a gallon
gasoline in canada was actually probably
a good thing because canadians should be
reminded non-stop just how severe the
climate crisis is every time they fill
up their cars and that's perfectly
bloody fine unless you're living on the
edge of your economic capability and the
fact that you can't afford to fill up
your car anymore puts you into
unemployment and food deprivation in
relationship to your children and that's
in the rich west and now in europe we're
so goddamn stupid on our energy policy
because of these idiot environmental
schemes that we've made ourselves
pathologically reliant on the russians
and we're going to bloody well see what
that costs us and i know the germans are
burning coal again because their their
switch massively expensive and
counterproductive switch to so-called
renewals has been another catastrophe
and so now god only knows how expensive
energy is going to be become and that's
directly related to the provision of the
famines that michael is talking about
so get ready for this folks because it's
coming down the pipes
jordan
germans are collecting wood right now uh
as much as they can get they realize
this can be a very cold winter right
yeah this is going to be a very well
that's what i thought the globalist
utopian mantra let the poor freeze in
the dark
that's how you save the planet yeah no
kidding man
if anything that can destroy the the
european union that'll be it if germany
collapses it's over right and you know
many of us have been looking at greece
and italy and portugal and spain for
years wondering which one would go first
i thought it would probably be greece
but we saw italy looks like they might
be the first to fall off the tree right
and uh and and probably the other three
italy uh portugal spain uh you know
greece or italy already uh you know
greece uh probably be soon to follow
these are the weak uh canaries in this
coal mine i mean it'll fall out of the
european union oh yeah and now look
uh putin has just uh cut the gas uh for
the annual maintenance and uh and of
course we've got zielinski over there uh
saying that you know canada should not
send back the turbine to germany and
like he's inserting himself basically
into the life and death of hundreds of
millions of people zielinski the actor
uh you know i mean this is really we've
never seen something like that i mean i
if things continue it's all about
conditions people often talk about
sparks you know what will be the sparks
yeah yeah no kidding man sparks sparks
is an amateur question professionals
talk about conditions
there's always sparks and the conditions
that are being set now with whether it
be the inputs of fertilizer
fungicides pesticides all the other
chemicals that go into agriculture the
energy diesel
lng uh just so many factors that uh that
are really going the wrong direction
transport you know famines in the past
have generally been recently i found the
1910 1911 britannica uh and i looked up
famine i was just seeing what they you
know thought about famine back then and
it was a very wisely written uh uh entry
in britannica and they said they they in
the entry uh posited that that you know
large famines are probably a thing of
the past because now we have modern
transportation obviously some of the
largest famines were yet to come because
the largest famines are always caused
not by locuses and drought they're
caused by people taking advantage of
these things right like the like the the
holata more in in 1932 33 in ukraine
very good book on that called red famine
where six million people were starved to
death by the communists and where where
women were shot if they went out into
the fields that had already been
harvested to glean individual kernels of
grain by hand
to feed their children if they didn't
turn over those individual kernels of
grain than they were then they were
summarily executed and that was fun in
the communist soviet union only six
million ukrainians and so and you're
exactly right on the famine front as we
like to think that the reason that
people starve is because we don't have
enough food and at the moment the reason
that people starve is because we're
stupid and often malevolent and so okay
so germany's in trouble and a huge part
of this as far as i'm concerned is
because of these unbelievably
ill-advised energy policies that were
hypothetically put in place to aid
aid the planet's movement towards lower
climate uh transformation and
fair enough you know maybe we have some
concern on that front but this this
absurd panicking combined with post hoc
central planning and this insane notion
that we can insi we can somehow make
energy more expensive without producing
uh cascading sequences of catastrophes
is naive beyond belief and malevolent at
least in part so now germany's in
trouble because they're hyper reliant on
the russians and so
now
back to the dutch farmers now the the
the dutch government put pressure on the
farmers recently because a legislation a
legislative body that was eu controlled
that's my understanding decided in favor
of an idiot environmental group that
that that
and the court compelled the government
that's a non-legislative body by the way
the court compelled the government to
act in relation to the farmers and
apparently the farmers have had enough
of this and so what's happening in
holland and and elsewhere in europe on
the revolutionary front let's say and
and and what do you think their motives
are and what effect has this had in
holland
wow this is a big topic as you know yes
farmers are
probably the finest and most efficient
in the world right and uh practically no
dutch people seem to know that which is
extraordinary right
and uh and and they don't realize how
important their farmers are to the world
with as the second largest food exporter
in the world yeah it's well it's a
miracle right because the hall of how
big is holland it's like it's a tiny
country you can drive across it in like
three hours meanwhile mark ruta the
prime minister is the teacher's pet of
klaus schwab i mean he's even more
favorited than trudeau right which is
pretty hard to do and so that's right
that's a hard contest to win on on the
appalling front yeah and so you know the
the the bureaucrats in brussels they are
ruling by decree right and of course it
has nothing to do with nitrogen here
they're talking about nitrogen it has
nothing to do with nitrogen it has
nothing to do with ammonium it has to do
with
numerous things one is taking the land
just as uh happened with stalin in
ukraine you know
labeling the farmers coolocks in ukraine
you know the ukrainian farmers
and attacking and killing them
here in netherlands there's a
information campaign to make the farmers
look like bad guys here as well i mean
these are the new catwalks right
meanwhile let me tell you something
about farmers i have spent more than
half of my life overseas more than 80
countries a lot of war i'm always going
out with farmers right and i've never
met farmers from any country i can't get
along with i mean
like even taliban farmers had common
sense at one point i'm in afghanistan
out with uh one guy he's growing opium
he's grown poppy for opium and uh he
said you know he's showing me the bugs
on his plant he said your helicopters
dropped these bugs on our plants at
night to kill our plants i said well no
sir we should be doing that because
you're creating opium but but we don't
we're not that smart and he goes
yes you're not that smart and then he's
like let's go have teeth and but anyway
even at one point i'm out with the
because us the two years i spent in
afghanistan one year was with various
militaries like british and american
militaries and
and uh lithuanians and that sort of
thing and another year was just alone
running around out with farmers and
whatnot and at one point yeah well the
farmers farmers are so much they're like
truckers in that regard there's so much
in contact with the they have yeah
they're like
yeah yeah electricians and contractors
and carpenters that's why christ was a
carpenter by the way because if you're
not honest you can't build a house that
stands up man and he wasn't a phd
sociologist he was a carpenter and those
people who have to have their hands in
the dirt and their feet on the ground
they have a sense about how the world
works that's practical and embodied that
the the pinheaded academic globalists
lack entirely and are also often
incredibly jealous of and so in canada
it was the farmers and the truckers who
rose up you know the misogynists and the
bigots and the racists in our prime
minister's terms and then that's
triggered these these co-occurring
protests in in the us and in holland and
now it isn't easy to get farmers upset
either way because those tractors that
they bring to the protests those things
are bloody expensive and most of the
farmers don't own them they're they have
to finance them and so they're running
on very thin margins three to five
percent a year generally and you have to
be one canny person to run a big farm in
a modern economy you have to be paying
attention to all sorts of unbelievably
complicated and sophisticated things and
so when the farmers have been pushed to
the point where they're willing to take
time away from their farms to spray
manure on the government steps it's
probably time to listen so i agree with
you on that front 100 percent so okay so
you're in holland and you're talking to
the farmers and what are they telling
you
well you basically are reading my mind
which is very difficult to do
when so when i was just in mexico uh and
i saw the dutch farmers i i know a lot
of people in netherlands and so when i
was getting inside you know that they
were acting up i was like dutch farmers
are actually protests no yeah right
right right man the last people you'd
ever expect
yeah so that's why i jumped on the
airplane uh because you know if the
dutch farmers are acting up i need to
come over here and hear what they had to
say that's for sure so let's talk about
that it's it's it first of all clearly
the the west the wef they call it weft
here in netherlands the world economic
forum is trying to control food supply
right that is production and
distribution right and so uh and one of
the ways to do this is as stalin did
with and mao did in china and stalin did
in ukraine and russia is to
take the farms away from the traditional
farmers and then
put your new your farmers on that land
right to what end michael like i read
about you know the
the notion that we need that we need to
you know turn to plant-based foods and
insect-based protein in the future and
that you know meat production and all
the cow methane or contributing to the
degradation of the environment but like
what
do you do you see this as a plan or just
as a as a part of the globalist utopian
ideologically blind stupidity
because i mean they're farmers do
pollute there is runoff from from
fertilizer it does cause algal blooms
for example in the water and these are
these are problems i don't think they're
insurmountable problems but you're
pointing to something that's more
malevolent and deeper and programmatic
and
and you know we don't want to go there
without without questioning that
presumption
i always think if you can explain it
with stupidity you don't have to explain
it with malevolence
well as you know that's a be careful
with that one because sometimes we do
have to go to malevolent incidents i
know i know we do yeah and and i watch
your show enough to know you know
exactly why this is happening and let's
talk about this if the dutch farmers
let's take this as a premise are the
most efficient in the world well let's
just say they're the second most
efficient why would you knock them out
of the saddle to get somebody else to
produce the food where indian farmers i
mean who's going to produce this food in
a much less efficient way that would
create even more pollution this is
clearly about control also there's
something that you never hear in what in
uh in in any press that
and that i've heard in the united states
is the tri-state city tri-state city is
this smart city that they're proposing
to build between the tri-states or
belgium netherlands and germany so this
mega city basically uh that would take
up all this farmland in that area and
which would uh bring uh huge amounts of
more people into this area right so the
tri-state city is something you don't
hear much about but that's another part
of this plan there was a fire about
maybe 10 days ago i went to it right
after the the next morning and it's it's
at a picnic distribution center which is
there was a there was a uh
an investment 600 million dollars into
this picnic food distribution center
from the bill and melinda gates
foundation coincidentally and it burned
down right and so you know that brought
a little
you know raise some eyebrows why did
that thing just burn down there's many
of them there's others and netherlands
are growing but the bottom line is is
the bill and millen or bill gates is
buying up farmland as you know all over
the place i know he is the biggest
private landowner in the united states
right now and the land that he's
buying up he's taking out of food
production
and it seems to be because he's obsessed
about about meat production at at least
in part doesn't believe that that's part
of a sustainable future and so but but i
i do share your
your skepticism it's the same thing
happens on the bloody energy front it's
like well australia won't build coal
generating electrical plants but they'll
ship their bloody coal to china where
they're going to build much dirtier
plants and the same thing applies to
canada if we shut down our industry
energy industry which our bloody insane
narcissistic delusional traitorous prime
minister thinks happens to think is a
good idea and seems to be working as
hard as he can to manage all that's
going to happen is that we're going to
see the ground to people like putin
who've also turned into a radical enemy
with his with his hands on the control
pump for europe i mean i don't see how
we could be stupider here in the west if
we actually took courses in stupidity
and tried as hard as we could
it's it we seem to be doing everything
we can to break everything as rapidly as
possible and then i wonder too you know
is it has it got to the point where the
people who think
you know that
you can't make an omelet without
breaking a few eggs and there's too many
people on the planet think that this is
some sort of
like needles eye that we have to go
through
all this mass starvation and death so
that we end up with a sustainable
population i mean jesus christ that's a
dim and grim
scenario but
i
as you said why would you take the dutch
farmers out of business when when
they're so unbelievably hyper productive
and efficient
it's just it's not like there's too much
food
especially not if we don't have farmers
if anything i would be uh trying to get
a large agricultural institute here in
netherlands to teach other farmers how
to be as efficient as dutch farmers are
i would replicate these farmers
in afghanistan actually many of the
farmers coming over i was out in the
farms quite a lot were actually dutch
farmers to teach afghans how to do
things better
but the bottom line is as you can see
there is a huge i watch you all the time
you know what's happening there's a huge
authoritarian uh uh uh
the the desire to have a one world order
is clearly strong and this isn't the
first time it's happened as you know
it's a constant in human behavior and
and also as a as a as somebody who
studies the human psyche a lot as you do
you realize pulling these farmers off of
their traditional farms
unroots them it cuts their anchor their
boat anchor they're going to be drifting
uh you know culturally so that makes
them much easier to you can't control
farmers as well that's why yeah
get rid of the farmers you know stalin
had to get rid of those farmers because
farmers have a mind of their own
same with mao you got to get rid of
those farmers because they think for
themselves and
likewise here these dutch farmers think
for themselves and so they're the bad
guys to me they're the great guys these
are yeah me too man
that's our backbone they are our
backbone that's why i flew to
netherlands from mexico i mean that's
how important this is
okay so what have you just what have you
discovered on the ground there you've
been talking to farmers tell us first of
all tell us about how the protests were
organized what their scope is and what
the farmers why the farmers are doing
this and what they hope to accomplish
well the farmers actually
the farmers in netherlands are amazingly
uh cognizant of what's happening uh many
people that i talk with around the world
don't realize you know
these other things like the weft you
know the wef and these sorts of things
but the the dutch farmers are talking
about it in detail they're like ah the
nitrogen is nonsense you know and it's
all about class schwab and bill gates is
trying to do this and they'll go into
great detail they know exactly what's
happening they're trying to take our
land because of this this and that and
the other and you know they they know it
they're not just like in panama it's
another story panama is just like give
us cheap gas give us cheap cheese you
know keep you know cheap this and cheap
that and we'll go home right they're
easily satisfied not the dutch farmers
they're more sophisticated these are
serious players here and again that's
why i jumped on an airplane if people
like this are blocking streets around
netherlands and we got the german
farmers joining up with them and saw
they're blocking the border together
german and dutch farmers right
polish farmers you know i love poland i
spent two years there polar polish
farmers are making videos in support of
dutch farmers that's how much is look
that started in canada jumped over to
united states
it's over here now i mean it's really
growing this courage is is spreading and
so and you see italian farmers spanish
farmers people are rising up
and the more they realize what's
actually happening because you know the
man behind the curtain is that is the
wef the world economic forum of course
we're going to have to deal with china
but at this rate if germany falls from
these energy issues which is looking
pretty likely at this point china is
going to peel off the rock too right as
are we economically right so oh for sure
yeah we cannot sustain we cannot we
cannot sustain the collapse of germany
that's absolutely 100 obvious that would
be an utter bloody catastrophe if
germany collapses
eu's gone right for a while right and uh
and and uh i mean the eu will probably
dissolve that's my guess i don't know
we'll see when time unfolds but
obviously that'll take our economies
with it and china right and japan and of
course japan imports what 60 70
all these island nations and island
state like hawaii that import hawaii 90
of their food imported right oh yeah
yeah they are going to be in for a world
of hurt uh japan imports most of its
food and you know some of these
countries that i have to uh you know
and i kind of uh
i should say maybe insulted
the french for a while years ago and
saying why are they
defending all these small farmers all
the time
now i see the french wisdom you know
these small farmers yeah that resilience
and these when you go to france and you
go to i'm sure you've been to france
yeah yeah
and and their small farmers everywhere
provide a great deal of resilience right
and that's why in netherlands if they if
they lose
these farmers are
vital for that they're as important as
their army i mean uh you know without
these farmers you're somebody else's uh
you're in somebody else's pocket bill
gates world economic forum yeah well and
also if you lose if you lose the farmers
for one generation you learn you lose
all that knowledge you know and i i saw
the government said well some of these
farmers are just going to have to move
it's like what are they going to do
they're going to move their farm how are
you going to do that you can't move a
farm and it's not like these things are
just
what transferable fungible in this
simplistic manner
and so yeah this is gen this is it's
such a form of insanity and it's all
justified by the fact that these
half-wit globalists are claiming
constantly to be moral because they're
saving the planet and you know i know
this literature i know the lit the
planet-saving literature let's say
because i studied it for about four
years and in some depth and i think i
found the world's thinkers who thought
this through properly and that would be
matt ridley and
bjorn lomberg and marion toopey most
particularly and all three of them and i
would put born laurenberg at the top of
that uh list those thinkers knew
something fundamental and something so
bloody optimistic that i couldn't
believe it was true when i first
encountered it which was that if we
really want to reach a kind of
sustainable harmony with the planet the
best way to do that
absolutely obviously is to distribute
autonomous free market systems as widely
as possible
and then to get people everywhere in the
world as rich as we can as fast as we
can because the biggest contributor to
environmental degradation isn't
industrial uh it isn't industrial
development it isn't the efficiency of
the dutch farmers it's
absolute bloody poverty and privation
and the probability that people at the
bottom of the economic distribution are
going to fall into these catastrophic
positive feedback loops that you
described and devastate and lay waste to
everything as soon as you make people
rich the data on this are crystal clear
as soon as you get people up to about
five thousand dollars a year in gross
domestic product they start caring about
the environment locally and autonomously
and so you know we're in a situation
right now where if our leaders weren't
so concerned with scoring cheap
reputation points and being hyper moral
in their ignorance and and pretentious
in their global uh ambitions we could we
working towards a world where everybody
had enough food and enough education and
were simultaneously inspired on their
own account to
do what engage in the kind of
environmental stewardship that would
leave a good plan for their children and
their grandchildren we could have our
cake and eat it too you know
and yet what we're doing is we're
breaking the supply chains and dooming
the poor and and fostering what's going
to be a mass migration into europe and
that's just going to be a bloody
catastrophe and i i hate to see this and
and i hope i'm wrong and i'm just being
paranoid but
but i don't think so
i don't think you're being paranoid uh
you know again i spend most of my time
downrange uh uh you know i spent a lot
of time in places like china india just
good lord i mean you know when you land
in china sometimes i wonder if my
airplane is gonna make it through the
smog or we're gonna get stuck like amber
and the smog you know i mean it's so
thick sometimes you can't see the ground
it's unbelievable and and likewise with
india right uh i spent almost a year in
india and another year in nepal right
it's just
in thailand where i have an office
sometimes you have to have air filters
in every room and
because you know because all of asia is
not all of asia but most of asia is
burning their farmland every year you
can see it in satellite look it up i
mean it's unbelievable so i mean this
pollution that comes from poverty is
quite intense not that china is poor and
rich and and india obviously is is uh
increasingly wealthy but they have huge
amounts
of impoverished people and their
factories still actually are behaving as
if they're poor they're dumping smog out
you know unfiltered it's unbelievable uh
anyway we could go on about that forever
but the bottom line is the farmers are
clearly under attack here in netherlands
the german farmers also are very
efficient again i lived here sorry four
years in germany and uh and uh that and
and their farmers are also under attack
and so all all across europe how many
people are engaging in these in these
protests right now and and are they
raging as intensely now as they were a
week or two weeks ago
uh my sense is that they're actually
growing uh they're they're not uh
they're not say going like panama was in
santiago last night in panama very
violent and burning things and stealing
police cars they're not doing that here
but you can see it's a more intellectual
uh at this point it's not gotten
intensely emotional at this point yet uh
although i i anticipate when if the
energy doesn't get turned back on and
and and yeah through the nordstrom
things are going to get emotional right
uh all across europe including here now
most of the dutch that i talked with
i was talking with a member of
parliament the other day he was
completely oblivious to the
famines right
jesus christ
totally missing it right and so this
this is kind of of concern and most of
the dutch people i speak with actually
don't seem to see that uh which is of
cour but there's these stores are
nicely stocked and yeah netherlands it's
a place of honey it's milk and honey
here you know yeah so
as you know you're a student of history
uh often
before the storm everything's quite nice
and the wine is flowing and that's the
way it is right now
yep and so i've read um western reports
that it's about 40 000
um dutch farmers and so i don't know
what percentage of the farmers that is
and i don't know if those numbers are
anything approximating accurate and i
don't know if you also are aware no
doubt you are of what's happening in
spain where i understand there's been
about a hundred thousand people
protesting and so
um what's the scale of this in holland
and it's growing into the the fishermen
are also coming out in support of the
truckers as far as i've been able to
tell and
if you want a job that's even more
difficult than being a farmer maybe
being a fisherman would be the more
difficult job and so
what sort of scale what sort of scale
are these protests uh manifesting at the
moment in europe and how many countries
do you think are involved you said
poland germany spain the netherlands
um
scale and and spread
italy as well uh i i'm kind of reticent
to make that guess yet and i've actually
published about this many times over the
years whether i was in uh the fighting
in thailand or the fighting in uh
in hong kong and which i've spent many
years in these sorts of things and i'm
often you know reticent to
to assign numbers now the media might
say 40 000 or whatnot i know it's a lot
let's put it that way and i and i do
sense that it's growing uh it's not
gripped the nation yet it's not reached
that level at all you see that the dutch
flag is often being flown inverted now
instead of red white and blue it's blue
white and red and now the the
the dutch government about within the
last week or so said that they're going
to start you know taking those off of
the overpasses because they present some
sort of danger of oh yeah there you go
yeah yeah the dangerous people will take
a photo and put it on you know their
social media right and then it'll spread
uh and one town i think two days ago
said that they're that you know they're
not going to do it they're just going to
let them fly right so i mean it so the
symbols are growing uh i'll meet with
part of the duck
well we want to we want to focus on
something here too for the enlightenment
of the listeners and viewers so i don't
know if there's a more
intelligently
and compassionately and justly civilized
country in the world than the
netherlands so let's think about that
country i mean first of all it shouldn't
even exist the dutch had to
literally drain the oceans and build
walls just to make the country exist and
believe me man you bloody well better be
organized in order to do that and they
did that hundreds of years ago and put
together this unbelievable
system of irrigation and drainage that
ran on those amazing windmills which are
technological marvels and and dutch
society is unbelievably civil and
peaceful and productive and interesting
and culturally vibrant it's a great
country it's a it's a stellar miracle as
ion herze ali uh pointed out when she
moved there from
from uh somalia
and
so so we don't want to underestimate the
central significance of holland and then
obviously of the netherlands obviously
that country is predicated to some
degree for its success on the provision
of stable food supplies and these
unbelievably efficient farmers and so
the fact that they are up in arms about
all this is of signal symbolic and
practical importance which is why i
think it's so
necessary to focus on their concerns and
also so appalling that this isn't
headline news in every every legacy
media outlet across the across the west
because when the dutch farmers are upset
and moving on moss the way they are
something has gone seriously wrong this
is a canary in the coal mine situation
it really is and you know as you
mentioned the the sophistication of
these of these people in general i mean
basically the netherlands the
sophistication of building this country
out of nothing i mean it's basically
flat pyramids i call this just think of
the pyramids flat i mean this is very
difficult country to build and yet they
did it back without modern machines they
did it just in their brains and their
brawn and they did it in persistence and
organization these are extraordinary
they're they're not normal they're like
japanese right
they're like yeah but more so right and
yeah right well they're even taller
right they're like how i think the dutch
are the tallest people in the world and
so i always feel like a shrimp when i go
there and and metaphysically as well
because it is such a remarkable country
they are tall i mean they're bouncing
their head off the moon it seems like
and so so i mean
but i mean extraordinary uh people and
and and thus came these extraordinary
farmers right
and so and thus they are an important
target to take out uh for people like
west when you're talking about
information more
and when you're talking also the food
supplies i mean this is just like
every every uh
company every uh you know invading army
or whatever always has a budget right
there's only so much energy you have and
it's the same with weft the wef and so
you need to concentrate your efforts to
get things going in places like russia
and ukraine and to get things going in
panama if they're behind that uh and
also netherlands so you know pick your
targets you know you're gonna pick uh
vital uh critical notes and netherlands
is a critical node there's a lot of bang
for the buck here by taking these
farmers offline uh and there's and
culturally as well uh because you know
once netherlands is unmoored remember
this this this is
meant to be
the hub of tri-state city don't forget
tri-state city i mean this is and what
what is that tri-state city what's
what's the idea there
tri-state city is meant to be a mega
smart city between
the tri-states would be uh germany
belgium and netherlands where those
borders come together this mega city
that many dutch have actually not heard
of and uh and and they will take this
farmer's land and
make this mega city there and bring
people from all over the world
and
this is
to what end to what to what end to what
end what's what's the rationale for that
central plan central pla okay okay so
okay so what are the farmers what are
the farmers hoping to accomplish like in
canada part of the reason that the
truckers convoy
ended i would say and i would say it
ended pretty successfully in many many
ways first of all they had the sense to
end it before it degenerated into
anything even vaguely approximating
violence which was extremely wise and
conservative on their part and careful
and compassionate
the opposite of all the things they were
being accused of and but part of the
problem with the truckers protest it
wasn't exactly obvious what the end goal
was you know and so they were accused of
fomenting rebellion and wanting to
produce a january sixth insurrection
which was basically what the bloody
trudeau liberals accused them of and
tried to convince canadians of and which
the americans even democrats think is an
utterly preposterous notion and which
was factually untrue to the nth degree
so but they didn't exactly know what
they wanted they wanted the damn
government to leave them alone
fundamentally and stop mucking about
with the energy economy and stop
intervening in their life that made
having a livelihood
impossible but it wasn't more concrete
than that you know end of vaccine
mandates that was part of it the mass
mandates but and so
but what is it that the dutch truckers
want apart from not being like
eviscerated and chased off their land
well you know that i i would say that
the canadian truckers protest didn't end
it took on a life of its own it spread i
mean it's fantastic yeah fair enough man
spread in america and here now right and
so yeah yeah and what do the dutch
farmers want mostly they want to be left
alone they want to be farmers uh you
know they right i was out of this they
want to go back to work
they're farmers i mean they're busy yeah
i mean they're business people they're
they're they're all those things at once
they just want to be left alone they
want to be farmers they have their own
culture and uh and they just want to do
what farmers do which is farm right and
make money and graze their families and
and and and live life right and feed
other people which is really nice of
them all things considered right and i
think everybody watching this probably
has somebody in their family who's a
farmer right i mean uh you know it's
just i mean pretty much all of us are in
some way tied to farmers
if not directly uh very close indirectly
and and the farmers again we can't
understate this
the farmers are a backbone of this
culture and when it comes to information
wars whether that be mao unmooring
chinese or
the russians doing this you know
creating the soviet union you want to
cut people from their boat anchors cut
them from their cultural anchors and
then you can uh then they're very easy
targets for many things for instance uh
for instance uh genocide for one uh and
and another is uh menticide right rape
of the mind uh which is a great book
which was written in netherlands right
rape of the mind 1956 one of the best
books on uh brainwashing i've ever read
uh written right here
you know because this has happened many
times in the past it's gonna continue to
happen in the future and one of the most
important vaccines that we can take is
to study
cult making and mint sides and how these
techniques are used against people i've
studied these things for years because
when i was in special forces people
talked about if you want to fight
communism you have to study cults
because communism is a cult right it's
it's got cult-like components that are
very impor you know i so i studied cults
for years i infiltrated a cult at one
point actually it was a cannibal that i
tracked down oddly enough and
infiltrated them that's an interesting
topic oh my god yes
it was epic but i mean but the point is
is cults are cults and the only cults
people won't see is the cult that
they're in right people will never see
and that would include me if i'm in a
cult i'm probably not going to see it
right
but everybody else can see it hey that
guy is in a cult right and so you know
the the cult making of wes the wef we
can see clearly they've got this climate
cult right yeah everybody's like oh
we've got to do this and you know we're
willing to kill people that in mass to
do it even though we have no idea about
this well
okay so so let's talk well let's talk
about that again you know the reason i
like bjorn lomberg
because there are some concerns on the
environmental front like there always
are we've overfished the oceans to a
terrible degree and it would be better
if we polluted as the least possible and
there is some evidence that human
contributions to global warming are a
genuine thing but i looked at the data
as broadly as i possibly could on that
front and i concluded that lomberg's
group in copenhagen had the most
intelligent approach to assessing the
problem and offering solutions and
basically what lomberg did was take the
ipcc
climate report and accept its
prognostications on the global warming
front as accurate now that doesn't
necessarily mean he believes that or
that they are accurate but he was
willing to start there
and then he calculated with teams of
economists and i don't know how else
that how the hell else you do it
what the
detrimental consequences for global gdp
would be as a consequence of the
proposed climate change and then he
uh projected out what our wealth
increase would be by the end of 2100 at
three percent or four percent a year
growth which is about what we've
averaged for the last 30 or 40 years
and he calculated how less rich we would
be as a consequence so we'll be much
richer than we are now
barring all the catastrophes that are
man-made that we've been discussing but
we'll be slightly less rich than we
would have been if there wouldn't be
climate change and then lomborg lays out
a number of things that we can do to
ameliorate the consequences of climate
change but he goes farther than that he
said look
climate change is not actually the only
problem that we face there's a whole
plethora of global problems which is
part of the reason there's like 200
u.n sustainable development goals and it
isn't obvious that we should be dumping
trillions of dollars into climate change
amelioration when we have other problems
to solve as well so he had 10 teams of
economists rank order the world's
problems as outlined in no small part by
the u.n and say look if we were going to
donate resources if we're going to
devote resources to the amelioration of
these serious problems what are the most
serious problems and where can we get
the most bang for our buck and then he
averaged across economists uh
approximations of what the cost benefit
would be in addressing these issues and
what he found was that most of the
issues having to do with climate change
amelioration don't even meet the top 20.
they're not even included in the top 20
for the things that we should be
concentrating on most and i read the
lomberg's work and i thought well i've
never seen anyone do a more careful
analysis of the entire situation than
this
does anybody have a counter-argument and
the counter-argument seems to be
if you're not a true believer in the
apocalyptic climate nightmare and if you
don't think that no
uh measures no matter how dramatic are
not even sufficient then you're
basically an agent of satan and i just
don't regard that as a a careful and
nuanced argument i think it's a polling
and it's a reflection of the ignorance
and luciferian pretensions of the
globalist utopians and their absolute
inability of them of themselves to
educate to become educated on this front
and so
well sorry for the rant but jesus you
know this is serious business
well now they're trying to shut down the
bloody farmers it's like what the hell's
going on here we actually need food
especially poor poor starving people
remember them socialists aren't those
the people that you're supposed to be on
the side of well all you're doing with
your idiot utopian globalism and your
environmental apocalypse
and your willingness to identify
yourself as part of the moral elite
because you care about the planet is
dooming well michael thinks a billion
people
to starvation
so what the hell how is that moral
well you know the climate problem is so
serious that if we have to starve a few
people to solve it it's like fair enough
man let's say you're right well you're
not because as soon as you make people
poor you make the
environment worse period the end not
just a little bit worse way worse
radically worse just wait till you see
what happens to sri lanka on the on the
sustainable
biological front
so
okay back to the dutch farmers so what's
going to happen in holland and what's
going to happen in europe you said it's
dependent on whether the bloody russians
keep the taps off
what's going to happen i think about
that approximately once an hour
because
what's going to happen this is you know
the system is emerging the energy is the
lng is now cut off so a lot of these
things that are important right now
might seem unimportant just one month
from now if that energy is not turned
back on again because this is going to
cause um an immediate cascade right and
yeah this summer will be over yesterday
you know it was
so hot here some places closed it was
only like 99 degrees of course i just
came in from mexico so i'm good to go i
sweat but i'm you know i'm from florida
right so i mean
and so but they actually were closing
some places here because it was too hot
and in some public transportation it it
made me think you know this is actually
kind of a minor challenge
this winter is going to be cold
this is a very serious deal
as you know
energy is a is a kill shot for food
right i mean if there's not enough
energy they're not going to be able to
create the fertilizer and transport the
fertilizers that are neat we already saw
a large fertilizer plant closed down in
norway and others as well that's just
one of others uh well and you and
ukraine and russia are major sources of
fertilizer production yes
and china has just stopped their exports
as well and and many others i mean this
is a this is a cascade and we're already
it's almost like a kessler send them
cascade here right i mean it's just uh
and at this point uh i think there's too
much inertia to stop it at this point uh
there was
i think we could have headed it off even
a year ago
if we suddenly had serious leadership uh
across and and we directly addressed wef
if we had a president and a no we have
what we have is leadership who meet and
then laugh about putin's shirtless
photos that's what we have instead of
serious leadership yeah we have we have
a pack of many issues uh the inertia is
too heavy at this point we're gonna
we're going to see
uh a lot of starvation and a lot of hop
human osmotic pressure the migration
yeah and of course this leads to
pandemic we'll have real pandemics
because again when you have many people
starving they're uh first of all they
start migrating and eating things they
don't normally eat and their immune
systems are depressed anyway bottom line
is every time you get big famines you
get big pandemics which will create more
war we get that positive feedback loop
well good then we can lock everybody
then we can lock everybody down again eh
that'd be real fun we can lock everybody
down again like they did in shanghai and
then we can disrupt the supply chains
any even more and then we can starve a
bunch more people and maybe we will
settle out with 600 million people and
have a sustainable planet you know with
all those 600 million people living in
the ashes and the skeletons
and with baron baroness and apocalyptic
nightmare everywhere around them that'll
be a hell of an outcome
it's interesting because you know some
people say hey that's apocalyptic
apocalyptic and doom and gloom and i say
oh if you've looked at my work over the
many years
you'll see i'm actually very measured i
wouldn't say something like this because
i i i know that my
many people depend on me to get things
right so i research seven days a week
travel the world talking with the right
people reading so many books you
wouldn't believe and and i try to figure
out what's going on which is difficult
uh and but i do have a good track record
and i can see how the conditions are
setting
it's not about sparks we see panama for
instance going in the wrong direction at
this point uh and that's obviously vital
panama canal uh we see uh you know
issues between uh iran and uh israel
which could cause other energy issues
nordstrom is cut
we've had the explosions in texas and
and uh in oklahoma
energy's gone
and even if nordstrom were wide open uh
europe's got problem with energy this
winter that's just a fact of life which
means next year remember famine creates
famine next year we're not going to have
enough fertilizer period we're eating
the food that's already been grown at
this point so right now
uh yeah so and we in addition to this
normally we have a lot more resilience
for instance the droughts that we have
in the united states okay we have terra
we do have incredibly terrible droughts
right now in the united states normally
we could kind of fill in the gaps and
it's not going to be happy days but
we'll fill it out nobody's going to
starve to death uh but now our
resilience is reduced and so what you
know we're not going to be able to be
sending food out to all over africa and
these sorts of places without starving
our own people now keep in mind by the
way during famines often countries like
china were exporting huge amounts of
food while their own people were
starving mao was doing that actually
stalin did that when
ukraine was starving and that's that's a
strange thing about famine some
countries continue to export food while
their people starve
but that's a side topic well that is
what you do when you're aiming at
starvation yeah well so you're a lot of
fun to talk to jesus you're the you're
the major i don't know
yeah yeah yeah you're that's an even
more dismal conversation than the one i
would have with myself i would say well
look michael thank you very much for
talking to me today and enlightening me
and all of the people who are watching
and listening about these preposterous
and appalling occurrences i sure hope
you're deluded and wrong but i'm afraid
you're probably not um and that's really
sad and horrifying and we're going to be
lucky if we get through this winter
without major bloody catastrophe as far
as i can tell on about five different
fronts and
these absolute abdication of leadership
in the west especially on the
environmental front is right at the
forefront of all of this and so all
right for everyone who's listening i'm
going to continue to talk to michael
behind the scenes so to speak at daily
wire plus i've added that to my
youtube offering or my online social
media offering let's say as part of this
daily wire deal i have been talking to
all my guests for an additional half an
hour or so about the development of
their career michael's had an amazing
life i would say in in about five
different dimensions and i i would like
to ask him how his interests unfolded
and what pathway he followed and what
his calling is to use a an
anachronistic biblical term and that's
all offered at daily wire plus who have
been kind enough to produce and film and
edit and help distribute and publicize
all of this work that's also part of the
daily wear plus deal which i think is a
good thing for everyone including me and
hopefully the audience and so we're
going to switch over to
the daily wire plus and if you want to
support the work they're doing
which is at least in part trying to
bring actual journalism back into the
world so that people know that famine is
coming for example um please give some
consideration to offering them some
support you know uh
we're hoping to make the daily wire plus
into
a reliable
alternative news source which means an
actual news source in today's world and
um you know i don't know if we can
manage it but that is our aim so michael
thank you very much for talking to me
today that was uh extremely interesting
in the most horrible possible way and uh
kudos on your adventurous spirit man and
your courage in the face of all this god
you have a ridiculous life
um
it must be quite something to be
trying to
address these concerns conceptually and
in the practical way that you're doing
it traveling and so forth and by by
keeping your ear to the ground it's an
amazing thing that you're doing and so
hopefully hopefully it's going to tilt
us away from the four horsemen of the
apocalypse because they certainly seem
to be on the march again and that's
pretty bloody sad to say the least so
over and out everybody and michael uh as
i said man thanks very much for going to
talk to me today
thank you jordan it's been a pleasure
and an honor
thank you very much sir
i would encourage you to continue
listening to my conversation with my
guest on dailywireplus.com